Google Safety Engineering Center - Google About Our products Our commitments Our stories Google Security Engineering Center Understanding. Developing. Empowering. Partnering. Towards a better, safer internet. Responding to the global call for a safer, more trusted internet, we?ve launched the Google Safety Engineering Center. Led by an experienced team of engineers in Munich, Germany, the Google Safety Engineering Center is the global hub for Google?s Internet safety work. By understanding the problem, developing solutions, partnering with others, and empowering users everywhere, we can build a better, safer Internet for all. Understanding We listen to users around the world to understand their concerns about online security. In data privacy, users' needs matter How to protect your passwords Why we fall for online fraud Developing We give our team of engineers the space, inspiration, and support to develop the next-generation solutions the internet needs. Here's why Google in Munich is a global leader in privacy How Google improves web security behind the scenes Google Account: A one-stop-shop control center Empowering We empower people everywhere with our tools, resources, events, and initiatives. Free training courses in online security How two-factor authentication makes your account safer How Google protects user data Eight Google tools to improve your online security Nine ideas for how to improve your online security Load More Partnering We work with NGO partners, policymakers, and industry leaders to develop approaches that protect everyone. Five online security tips for your business How to take your data with you anywhere The most important questions about online security People behind the Google Safety Engineering Center We'd like to introduce you to some of the people behind the Google Safety Engineering Center in Munich, who work towards a better, safer Internet. Stephan Micklitz Director of Engineering ?Germany is where the debate on protecting personal data in many ways began. In 2009, Google moved a significant part of its online security and data privacy work to Munich. Now, it?s extending its commitment to Germany and Internet safety with the Google Safety Engineering Center.? Carmela Acevedo Software Engineer ?Users should be able to understand as much about online privacy and security as they want to, while always being sure that they are safe.? Jan-Philipp Weber Engineering Manager ?Privacy and security are essential and highly personal; and both should be effortless to achieve.? Anneke Glasius Interaction Designer ?Users need to be able to make informed decisions with regard to their data. Intuitive design solutions help them to tackle those complicated topics.? Jochen Eisinger Director of Engineering ?We want users to be in control of their online privacy and security without them having to worry about it. Users want to browse the Internet, and we need to provide them with safe and reasonable defaults settings when they do so.? Back to top Follow us on: More about us Contact us Investor relations Careers Locations Blog Think with Google Press room Press inquiries Images & B-roll Permissions Speaker requests Policy Application security Software principles Unwanted software policy Responsible supply chain Extended workforce Community guidelines Responsibility Google.org Sustainability Crisis Response Diversity & Inclusion Accessibility Transparency Digital Wellbeing Safety Center Google Safety Engineering Center Human Rights Help Privacy Terms
